
                      Mathomatic Installation Instructions
                      ------------------------------------

The requirements for easy installation from this source code are: the GNU
make utility and the GNU C compiler (gcc). Other C compilers may be used, but
may require small changes to the makefile and source files. You will need to
open a shell window to compile, install, and run Mathomatic.

Under Mac OS X, the required compilation software is included in Xcode Tools,
which is available on one of your Mac OS X installation discs or downloadable
from the Apple developer tools website. To open a shell window, double click
on the Terminal application in Applications/Utilities.

On a Debian or Ubuntu Linux computer, the "build-essential" and readline
development packages are required to compile Mathomatic with readline
functionality. To open a shell window in desktop Linux, launch
Applications/Accessories/Terminal. To skip these compilation instructions and
install an older version of Mathomatic, already compiled and ready to run
under Debian or Ubuntu, type:

	sudo apt-get install mathomatic mathomatic-primes

at the shell prompt, then type your password if prompted for it. You can then
run Mathomatic by typing "mathomatic". This is possible because Mathomatic is
an official Debian package. It is also an official Fedora package. To install
Mathomatic in Fedora Linux, type:

	yum install mathomatic

The Mathomatic code is portable, self-testing, and easily compiles and
installs using the GNU utilities under Linux, Unix, Solaris, Mac OS X, and
under the Cygwin environment for Microsoft Windows. Both the source code and
compiled, ready to run, binary packages may be available from your operating
system's package manager or from the Mathomatic website:
http://www.mathomatic.org/math/download.html


                     Typical compilation and installation
                     ------------------------------------

Root (super-user) authority is needed to install Mathomatic, because write
permission is needed to copy files into the directories in "/usr/local".
Mathomatic need not be installed to run the compiled executable.

A typical compile/install is done by typing the following at the shell
prompt, while in the Mathomatic source code directory:

	make READLINE=1
	make test
	sudo make install

That will compile the source code with readline enabled, test the
functionality of the generated executable (named "mathomatic"), and install
the executable, docs, and tests in "/usr/local" in less than a minute. After
that, typing "man mathomatic" should bring up the man page, and typing
"mathomatic" should run Mathomatic. If Mathomatic doesn't run, check that the
PATH environment variable includes "/usr/local/bin" with the shell command
"echo $PATH".

To install in "/usr" instead of "/usr/local", type:

	sudo make prefix=/usr install

sudo asks you for your password; if it doesn't work, login as root or type:

	su -c "make install"

and enter the root password to install as the super-user.


                                   Solaris
                                   -------

To compile, test, and install Mathomatic under Solaris with GNU make and gcc,
type the following while in shell in the Mathomatic source directory:

	CC=gcc  CFLAGS=-D__C99FEATURES__  gmake READLINE=1
	su root
	prefix=/usr  docdir=/opt  INSTALL=ginstall  gmake install
	exit


                                      m4
                                      --

To install everything, including m4 Mathomatic, which allows easy entry of
math functions like sqrt(x) and sin(x) as macros, use "make m4install"
instead of "make install".


                                  Uninstall
                                  ---------

To undo the installation, removing Mathomatic from the local computer, type:

	sudo make uninstall

These instructions were written by George Gesslein II of www.mathomatic.org
